From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 300 recorded live Tuesday,
January 3rd, 2012. Support for Hansel minutes
is provided by Telerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Dennis Belott about service
stack. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. It's
the framework series continues. We're
looking at folks that work
on and write and include
the community in their open
source frameworks. And today we've
got Dennis Bell out talking to
us about service stack. You
can check out service stack.net.
How are you, sir? Yeah,
I'm pretty good. Thanks Scott.
Thanks for taking the time
to talk to me today.
So service stack.net, it says
on the site open source.net
and mano rest web services
framework. Is that, is that
all it is? Is it
just a rest in web
services framework? Because it seems
to have some useful things
that I might want to
use, even if I'm not
making a web service framework.
Basically it is primarily around
building high-performance web services, but
it's includes our entire stack
because it's everything would ever
want in order to build
that. So it does have
a lot of other bits
that are just useful in
general purpose, web programming. So
it's, I am including the
entire stack that, but it
is all centered around a
how to build high-performance web
services. And then there's some
sub components that are within
service stack service stack text,
which has texts serializers for
chasing and XML data contracts.
There's a Reddis, which is
a memory caching library. This
is the C-sharp open source,
read his client to the
Reddis backend services. There's also
a, an ORM light or
what we call a micro
ORM. And then there's a
caching section. Cause like I
was thinking there, each of
those is useful just on
its own. It sounds like
you can download those separately
as well. Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So each of those components,
or are all basically useful
in a, in a, in,
in, on itself, each of
those components actually downloadable separately
in their own projects and
dependencies, I actually have a
MVC power pack where you
can actually install service stack
and you get all those
dependencies in your MVC website.
You don't even have to
use a web framework, but
you've got you get access
to all the, the, the
high performance components. But yeah,
so there's the three different,
the main components are, is
the tech civil service sector.
Texts has no dependencies. It's
got a Jason and JSB
sterilizer. It's the F and
CSV sterilizer. Yeah, they're the
fastest serializes of benchmark, but
for.net stack overflow uses because
it's a quite a lot
quicker than what's bundled in
NBC at the moment. But
yeah, it's basically clean. It
all works. It all the,
all the us libraries actually
work with clean pocos, that's
why I'm able to get
a lot of reuse around
it. And I think that
would be actually really useful
if everyone's, if anyone's dealing
with have got their own
clean models, you can actually
use them with, with all
the frameworks, with, yeah. With
all the sub components. And
then you've got arm light,
which is a very nice
Paco RM, you don't need
anything else, but the code
first RMS generates a schema
based on, based on that.
So thinking about each of
the different pieces separately, one
of the things that I
was impressed about when I
visited service stack.net was that
you've got benchmarks. I thought
it was really great that
it's very open in the
sense of like, here's what
we do. Here's what we
offer and click here for
how our speed compares to
the others. And in some
cases you're faster and others
at other cases, you're not,
and that's a, it's pretty
cool. I'm looking at the
serialization benchmarks for taking some
Northwind database rows. And there's
a couple of times where
you're faster. And then there's
another thing called protocol buff.
What is protocol is that
one of your competitors? Well,
protocol buffers is a Google,
the wire format. That's, it's
very optimized for point to
point communication , but right.
The protocol, but implementation is
very fast it's binary, but
it is like, it's probably
the fastest SU binary serializer
for.net in it's closely behind
that would be a message
pack, which has kind of
a newcomer on the scene.
But in all of benchmarks
I've seen protocol buffers basically
be the fastest. And yeah,
so it's basically Google's implementation
of binary, binary serializer. It
ends up being very fast,
very small, very efficient. And
Mark Greville from also that
stack overflow, he wrote a
very excellent implementation of it.
So yeah, in terms of
serializes, he's, he's the he'll
have the best, the fastest
serializer, but in terms of
texts utilization, that's what the
Jason JSB supervisors, I tend
to prefer texted or lessons
from the debug ability standpoint
and also from cause they
are, schemeless, they're actually a
lot easier to work with
and you can actually edit
in line, remove fields and
fields and it all works
really well. So it's actually,
they're all very resilient, but
I, in terms of the
tech services, the assistant supervisors
do very well in terms
of like they'll, they're the
fastest texturized. Yeah. I was
thinking, Sorry. I was thinking
about frameworks in the, in
the context of there's the
existing dotted framework in the
base class library. And then
there's folks that write stuff
that are kind of directly,
I wouldn't say competing, isn't
the word, but there re
implementations about what already exists.
And is there, is it
usually, or always speed in
your sense when someone goes
and writes something that already
exists in the base class
libraries And no, not at
all. My, my, my clean,
my, my initial problems code
first solutions. They always, in
all my experience, I always
promote a more elegant, simpler
solution. And basically I've just
been unhappy with the high
level overweight obstructions, for instance,
like HBO wave forms. I
just thought it was a,
let's say it's a false
suicide leaky obstruction, which didn't
quite work for way. Programming
worked pretty well for a
windows form developers, but I
don't think it in the
end promotes a very usable
code. WCF is also has
a S a service side,
very, very thick, abstract obstructions
as well on the service
side. And yeah, I'd much
prefer a clean, cleaner, simpler
interface where you can easily
implement and easily test taking
clean models, basically as a,
as a pro a developer
practicing solid design principles kind
of thing, where it's light
thin and, and basically fast.
And I, I do prefer
all my software components be
very fast since I do
believe it's probably the primary
feature of enjoyable it's end
user experience. Yeah. Why do
you think that your stuff
is faster than the Microsoft
stuff? Well, all the benchmarks
show that these actually aren't
my benchmarks. These are the
external benchmarks from different sites.
I've got a couple of
them are that are mine,
but basically the ORM, which
shows in three frameworks, like
12 times slower than Deborah
and, and arm light is
these are for depth as
benchmarks. Then someone else did
the civilization for the burning
monk. Basically every benchmark that
we've seen, it's clearly a
lot manufacturer of times faster
than, than Microsoft solutions. I,
there is Microsoft to do
some good things like, well,
the cough, the cough dominant
framework itself is, is fantastic
and a good performance. So
you got to call libraries
like the concurrent diction and
those they're doing really well,
but there is the high
level frameworks that don't perform
so well, WCF is, is
not so great performance. So
is a terrible, terrible. The
JavaScript serializes is like the
worst. It was performance advisors
out there, I think. And
I, I own it. I
think they first, I think
they don't didn't care too
much about Jason because their
data XML data contract is
actually quicker than their adjacent,
and there's got no reason
for it to be. So
I actually think they put
a lot of effort in
their XML data contract sterilizer
and the job script supervisor.
It was a deprecated library
that they've just resurrected and
worked NBC and I, and
I basically don't think they
spent the time to rewrite
a proper Fasten plantation. So
it's because NBC on it
has, has a lot of,
is pretty good in, in,
in a low overall, but
there are definitely some weak
spots that could, could be
The reason I ask is
I'm trying to get my
head around where Microsoft falls
down on, on library stuff.
And I see lots of
open source libraries that go
and do a faster versions
of something. And then there's
a benchmark that proves that,
you know, it's X times
faster, four X, 10 X,
whatever. And then I wonder,
because benchmark's only told half
the story. The other half
of course is, is kind
of compliance how correctly stuff
is. You know, it's easy
to go and say, Hey,
I wrote this open source,
Jason sterilizer, and I, you
know, for each over it
a million times, and it's
better, but it's difficult when
you start thinking about edge
cases and encoding and, you
know, characters that are encoding
regular and coding, correct correctness
as well. And I wonder
if, you know, is this
something where Microsoft drops the
ball on where they are
valuing correctness over speed? Or
are they just not very
good? I, I do. So
I do think Microsoft has
to encompass a lot more
situations educators than otherwise would,
although jason.net for instances is
a very popular adjacency, that
it actually has a lot
more features than, than the
JavaScript supervisor that Microsoft ships,
although the fact that it's
the JavaScript serialize, it might
say that actually does more
than just Jason. It's actually
J JavaScript aware. And I've
noticed this where encodes script
tags for embedded in a
HTML automatically. So that, that's
a nice addition that it
does, but I mean, it's
multiple times slower, so it's
doing something pretty wrong. Like
there's a lot of wasted
CPU cycles, but, but I
do. Yeah, I do think
they do care about edge
cases more than probably performance.
But at the same time,
I have a clear divide
of the call platform team,
the call.net framework, which is
very well performance. And a
lot of all of the
high level frameworks, I don't
want that variable performance. And
for instance, editing entity for
immigrant and that type of
a high, low framing. So
they were originally a GUI
driven and I feel like,
and so it was WCF.
Config is basically a, it's
almost a GUI driven or
config driven solution first. And
I basically in all my
experience at code first always
produces a more elegant, simpler
to how more testable and
basically in the end of
the day, easy and more
maintainable solution. So I, I
think they, they, I think
the biggest problem is that
they try to cater for
the entry level programmers and
have no framework specifically for
pro developers. Cause the prototype
was most of them, I
speak to don't actually care
too much for the GUI
designers or the conflict or
the conflict driven solutions. I
think that's more of a
what we, what I like
to call a drag and
drop developer. Okay. Do you,
do you think that you've
heard the term alt.net? Of
course, I don't know whether
you are self identify as
all.net or whether you think
the concept of all.net is,
is, is still around and
healthy or not, but maybe
we just say alpha geeks
are more kind of more
advanced people. Do you think
that all.net or alpha geeks
are the, are, are people
that love the CLR respect
the base class library, but
the higher up the stack,
they go the higher up
the deliverable from Microsoft directly,
they go the less they
respect this stuff. Yeah, absolutely.
I think everyone still on
the platform, because it's done,
it's not actually the most
vibrant open source platform. And
I mean, that's where I
spend my time, but it
is like, I think is
technically superior it's in terms
of my eyes. Well, on
the server, I don't particularly
like it for creating UIs.
Cause I think is superior
in that regard. But in
on the server, I do
think it's just, it's kind
of leagues above. Like the
competitors would probably be Java
and the JVM and F
shop and they just first
class world class technology. So
I do think everyone has
a massive respect for the
core CLR team. And, but
at the same time, most
of the pro alpha geeks
actually are writing their own
frameworks and they're usually writing
their own frameworks because there's
a problem with the existing
Microsoft solution. And so, yeah,
I basically all the technical
friends in, in, in the
old, on it circle, although
I think I'll do the
next, probably the wrong term.
Cause it was an interesting
community, which I've never was
a part of, but the
pro the pro.net web teams
basically are running their own
trainings or maintain their own
libraries. They're usually on get
hub and, and, and, you
know, a lot of them
are fairly mature libraries, but
yeah, so I don't, I
do well, I personally don't
have a greater respect for
the high level frameworks. For
instance, I, I think they
could be a lot of
things that could have been
done better and foster. So
when, when a person sits
down, when a listener, maybe
who's listening now sits down
and say, I want to
write a framework. Should they
think I want to write
a framework because I'm, I'm
better than the other people
who've written frameworks or should
they go and evaluate existing
existing framework? I, I think
that should look at their
requirements and see what their,
the, the core requirements would
be and definitely check other
frameworks at the time. W
without a doubt, because yeah,
it's something something already written
well already tested is already
a mature Barbara community is
going to be a lot
better than something you write
in your own time. But
if you have different requirements,
it's sometimes it's actually takes
more effort to understand and,
and, and fudge someone else's
API into your, a particular
use case than it is
just to create your own,
which, which you'd know intimately,
for instance, having, having, using
in creating your air and
serialize, I have actually am
able to produce just knowing
the implementation. I'm able to
kind of bypass that the
type system in a way,
and actually produce a lot
more cleaner, succinct code, because
a lot of developers that
didn't write the a D
didn't have intimate knowledge of
what the tools are using.
Aren't actually fully aware of
its capabilities and where it
can be used. So these
are some, this is basically
the trade off between running
your own or using someone
else's. But generally I would
advise to go out and,
and see what's out there,
although it is hard because
there's not real one place
you can look, I generally,
Google can only do so
much, But when I'm, when
someone who's learning about what
they should do or trying
to make a decision about
how to move forward, and
like, if I'm evaluating a
framework, and this is one
of the things I'm trying
to accomplish with it, with
the framework series, I'm not
sure if I'm doing it
yet though, is that I
want to go and I
want to build my, you
know, whatever my banking application
and I'm, I don't know
if the Microsoft stuff is
going to work for me,
but at the same time,
there might be a dozen
opensource frameworks out there. I
could write something myself. I
could use service deck. I
could use something else. I
could use a combination of
all of them. Is it
just trial and error or
are benchmarks enough? I mean,
you had to have sat
down and done some analysis
and really made a strong
case for yourself to go
and write a lot of
this code that you've written.
You couldn't have just done
it because you wanted it
to be your code. Absolutely.
I know I spent two
years at the BBC as
a technical architect, and I
actually had to work on
some really heavy SOA like
systems. And we did use,
we were a heavy usage
of WCF and there was
actually a, the, the first
SOA platform promoted by Microsoft
was called CSF. It was
actually an unmitigated disaster. It
was actually quite a huge,
it was the wrong tool
for the job way over
complex. And basically most of
the teams was like a
10, 12 man team, but
for like six years just
fighting the framework. And, and
we're all following like proper
design principles. We're all into,
into enterprise integration patterns, very,
very solid, very pro developer
teams. And we were basically
constantly fighting the frameworks. So
having got all this experience
about how to build, how
to build web services, what
the correct API should be,
what the correct patterns are.
And, and, and I believe
the, the best patents on
how to build web services,
actually from a Martin Fowler
camp, he's actually wrote some
really nice, the simple patterns
that promote a reasonable services.
And I feel like they're
the ones we probably should
be imitating. And, and so
I didn't actually find that
obviously, if we spent too
much time finding the framework,
so it was very rigid.
It's, it's kind of, it
goes against what the core
essence of a service be,
which is interoperable and, you
know, accessible many clients, not
just clients that are, have
it, not just so clients,
for instance, that you get
to participate in those sessions.
So, yeah, I haven't had
a good idea of what
the framework should be. And
I, there wasn't looking around,
there was nothing at that
time. This was like about
five years ago. So when
I first started, we first
started surf stack and it's
been, it's been like right
up since like major productivity
when it's just, just following
some really simple designs and
really simple things. I don't
like, there's no coaching, there's
no build steps. It's just,
everything's based on clean models,
the frame, instead of inventing
an artificial API, I actually
had the framework bind to
your models. So basically empowers
your model. So it's like
the, the, the API is
invisible. It's much easier to
work with much more productive,
multiple testable. And, and, and
basically it's just a massive
win for myself and all
the products and all the
assistance of, of, of put
it to work in over
the years. So it's, it's,
it's basically a matter of
experience being, being heard, what
we call that first implementers
pain. Having worked with a
lot of external technologies as
an ex Java developer for
many years, got, got to
use a lot of message
cues and other present squishy
patents that basically in many
cases are usually better fit
than web services as well.
And, and yeah, so I've
got a lot of exposure
to a lot of technology
kind of phoned in my
opinion, what the best, what
the best way it is
to, to develop a, a
kind of Sol like systems
and basically built a framework
that promotes that idea. So,
yeah. So trying to, I
mean, forgive me to kind
of harp on this point,
but I want to make
sure I understand that the
kinds of thinking and the
kinds of tools that someone
who is trying to decide
what framework to use or
is trying to write their
own framework should use to,
to make a decision you
were saying that you looked
at at Fowler, and you
looked at some patterns that
were appropriate for deciding as
well as it sounds like
suffering. If I may use
that term with existing frameworks,
that just simply weren't cutting
it. And I'm trying to
understand, should someone immediately assume
that an existing framework is
not going to work for
them, or should they go
and do the work abstract
away, the pieces that aren't
working and swap in entire
subsystems. And, and at what
level, because I, at the
beginning of the talk we
started looking at, you've got
a text manipulation and serialization
library, and that is separate
and downloadable from the caching
one, which is separate in
that little, from these other
ones. D do you create
your systems in that way
where you, you, you say,
you know, I have a
hunch that serialization is going
to be an issue, so
I'm going to make sure
that that is all done
and factored out such that
I can swap in and
out trivially, any number of
libraries and then, you know,
fail fast. Yep. So, yeah,
so I think in every
time, make a massive technology
choice. You should prototype with
the, with the, you should
pick a, a handful of
primary mix that you're evaluating
and definitely prototype solutions with
it. I think that's the
best way to actually work
out if it's going to
be the best fit for
you in terms of how
sort of steak has evolved.
I've basically used all, like
originally used the d.net.net data
contract, Jason sterilizer. But, but
once I did the benchmark,
because this is when I
was working at implant where
we actually try to try
to chase down every waste
moon second, for instance. And,
and so, so for instance,
these were actually problems with
existing tools. So for the
Jason sterilizer, we wanted to
get instant response times. We
were benchmarked with the residual
is where we were actually
quite said to learn that
Jason was actually a lot
slower than, well, it was
a slow than XML and
w and that we need,
that was just not meant
to be. And so we
basically created Jason sterilizer for
that, because we knew that
was, there was a lot
of wasted CPU cycles there.
And for the caching, because
Keisha should be a first
class concept, especially in high
performance systems. And at the
moment the, the mandate to
use XML config is, and,
and it's kinda, it's kind
of crippling in that you
can't integrate it inside your,
we call domain-driven services as
a first class concept because
it becomes it doesn't, it's
not as testable. And, and
basically we just wanted to
clean implantation the way we
could swap out a medication,
redness or fall a dispatch
solution and creating our own
API, which has a clean,
unimpeded interface is, was the
best solution for us. And
it's just adapters to existing
frameworks. We, we, we were
originally using memcache, but then
Rutgers came on the scene
and read us is just
like medication steroids. It has,
it's kind of like a
really elegant, no SQL data
store solution. It's distributed. It's,
it's perfectly written in terms
of like max for maximum
efficiency. It's a single process
like, like my JS, it
runs on a single event
loop, and it basically hosts
a calm side data structures.
And I find that is
extremely elegant because you get
to use the data. The
dustiest is you're familiar with
in your, in your program,
but in a distributed way.
So it was a, it
was a really elegant solution
that way without, cause you
can actually leverage to do
a lot of things like
a lot of live lists
that were using it. Our
start up was, was we
were taking advantage of versus
data structures. And because@thetimetherewasno.net client
sport. Well, we, we took
the, we took the head
of well, cause it's quite
cool. It's quite simple. There
were Miguel had one, but
it was, it was very
a thin wrapper around it.
And, and I decided to
make one more of an
hour M so we can,
it was so the
that's in service stacks is
in ships with three clients.
It has a bite, a
bite only client, which is
a very one-to-one mapping with
the reddest layer. And then
it has a string ETA
for UTF eight strings and
then types poker client. So
it becomes very easy to
deal with generic types as
a claim playing poker. So
once you're at that level,
you actually can do a
lot of functionality with liberal
code cause dealing with complex
types and we hide all
the serialization obstructions away for
you. So, yeah, that was
the, kind of the reason
why we, we originally did
it, but the first kind
of service tech was using
the existing lactose Jason data
contract sterilizer. It was using
memcache using with the asp.net
cation provider. And it was
using ISP dot sessions. But
over time, we've, we've basically
abstracted that out and, and
got to where we are
today. Yeah. So it sounds
like you, you started saying,
I want to make some
clean Jason services on top
of my existing domain model.
Yep. And things kind of
got more and more complicated
and your requirements for performance
were greater and greater. And
then you started factoring things
out and service stack grew
up out of that. Serialization
became a problem. Cashing became
a problem, et cetera. Yeah.
In terms of we were
chasing down every, every inefficiency
basically. So we know, we
know we looked at the
end result and I feel
like this is like the
Google approach as well, where
they actually look at the,
the end result and find
out what's the quickest way
to get there. And what's
the most efficient delivery what's
the most deployment. So if
you look at their, how
they deploy their single page
applications, Gmail and Google Madison,
and that, and that like
is actually very, they're a
development story where they they've
mentored the speedy protocol, they
admitted the protocol buffers just
because they're the best performance
solutions to get to the
end result. And so we
were basically following that path,
whereas, okay, what's the fastest
way to, to deliver this,
this, like these services. And
we're like, okay, we need
Acacia. Okay. We need cashing
it. And we want, rather
than what's the, what's the
most efficient use of casing.
And it's like,  instead
of like, based on time,
because time is a, you
don't get the best results.
You don't, you can get
stale cases back. And, and
this is why we want
to make casing first class
concept because in our domain
model, it actually said as
a database shield where we
were getting 90% hit cash
hits for a night and
upwards of that. And so
every time we S we
kind of say that the
domain model, we would invalidate
the case and we'd know
exactly what cases we would
need to invalidate. So basically
what we were having is
we're serving our datasets straight
from Sage, straight from Reddits.
Yeah. So, so in the
end, we, we basically looked
at what were, what our
requirements were and work backwards
as like, okay, now we're
going to have zip layer.
We're going to have, or
a deflate stream. It's going
to be caged. And the,
the actual work. So it's
what service locations is the
one line, right? And it
will actually catch the deflated
version if your browser supports
it of, of the Jason
payload or the, or whatever
end point you're hitting, you
actually get that the final
output case into the reddest
or what a vacation provider
is. And that gets written
directly to the response stream.
So this is like closest
to the pretty, the fuss
where you can serve a,
a web service response in,
in, in Indonesia, in managed
code. And that's kind of
where that's where we, where
we've got to. So we
work our way back. We
work that way, the efficient
inefficiencies, where, and, and, and
basically code will diminish. So
are you using the protocol
buffers technique for communication, you
know, in between tiers, within
your own stuff, and then
you use Jason sterilization when
you kind of exit the
service layer? No, we, we
use Regisford. So w when
we talked to Reddit's, we're
talking to w w we
basically use a D the
Jason's, the JSP survivor I've
invented my own format, which
is quite slightly quicker than
it's quite slightly quicker and
more compact than Jason, because
it uses a CSP, the
style escaping, which actually a
bit more performance than, than
Jason in coding. And we
use that for.net.net services. Cause
it's actually more, a lot
more malleable. So it, I
believe we're about maybe it's
twice as slow as protocol
buffers, maybe a bit more,
but, but what you gain
in vision ability and resilience
of your obvious services and
being able to actually debug
it and, and a version
of a time that is,
is, is something we were,
it was a trade off
we made. So yeah, it
done, it's done and services.
We basically the JSP, which
is the quickest tech serializer.
So I'm confused on when
is the protocol buffers used?
Oh, we don't actually use
it all you don't use.
So you support them. No
stack overflow supports it as
a, as a benchmark, as
protocol buffers was in the
benchmark, but it's not in
service stack. It's a, it's
like an anchor to say
what the fastest sterilizer is.
I see. So protocol buffers
is known to be the
fastest way to serialize something
because of the it's currently.
Cause it's just so very
light, Very light, very efficient.
And Mark has a, has
a really great implementation of
it and Google at the
Y format. And it does
some really neat tricks to
get it really, really, really
small and really fast. Huh.
Interesting. Okay. So what do
you think about service stack
as it relates to the
WCF web API stuff that's
coming out and how should
people, when people are considering
making their own services, where
should they look at where
your things fit and where
the new stuff fits? Okay.
So the web API, they've
got this heavy rest focus,
and I think they, I
mean, I think it's a
lot, it's a, it's a
massive step over WCF and,
and, and, and hopefully WCF
swipe services weed itself out.
I, I probably have different
concerns because I, as in,
they might want to take
every use case where I
would like to provide an
API that's kind of expressive.
So for instance, I will
have a API to return
a dictionary of strings and
that, and there will be
an HP header. I won't
have strong. I went, I'll
have some strong type constants
to indicate the HTP header
name, but I will, I
I'll, I'll leave a very
thin open API that you
can actually return create any
customer HB head, as you
want. I'm more concerned about
being really productive and in
terms of you create models
and every other model will,
the entire framework will actually
bind to your models. So
it's kind of like empowering
your models is completely code
first driven. And it's very
fast as a, as a,
as a key requirement. And
it's all solid design principles
straight through, or your rate,
your service in spaces and
only need to implement like
a single interface that influence
that lives in an interface
implementation free assembly. So I,
I try to keep things
oddly, testable, but basically I
try to be as productive
as possible. I'm more, I'm
more interested in, so the,
the Fowler patterns in, in
how to design remote services,
which is using core screamed,
bashful interfaces, dittos, strong, tight,
generic clients, and, and, and
basically empowering that model, make
it really productive. And I've
got neat features like your
HTML view. We'll, we'll we'll,
if you call your web
services through the HTML browser,
you'll get an automatically, you
get a human readable view
of your sort of status.
So if you return a
list of pocos, you'll get
the sortable haste milk table
view, and it makes it
much easier to visualize your
services. And I do that
because that's part of the
development cycle. So I just
try to be as iterative,
lead, productive as possible. And,
and with a performance focus,
I feel like there is
a different focus, but, you
know, it's, WCFA web APS
is much better than the
previous things as it was
before. I haven't actually done
many benchmarks with it yet,
but there is someone who's
putting the so stack example
projects, and that's probably a
good, a good place to
look for for the differences
between the two. I should,
I should give a link
to you to Atlanta, but
someone's actually porting the, all
the sort of tech example
projects across just so actually
give a good comparison between
the two. So maybe it's
a good, that'd be probably
the best way to, for
people to identify between the
two. Yeah. Yes, definitely. If
you've got a series of
links that you can give
us, we'll put them all
in the show links and
people can check it out
and they can go up
to service stack.net, and they
can also click on showcases
and see examples of websites
that are using service stack.
And there's lots and lots
of good stuff up on
the site, including benchmarks. They
can download the code up
there or they can get
it from a, from nugget
and you've got packages that
will get them started in
NBC or asp.net right away.
Yep. That's correct. Yep. I
probably, then you get, might
be the quickest way to
get started because it's a,
and it gets done in
a really good thing. I
think for open source in
general, it makes it comes
to get us a little
bit of a gateway into
vs.net, which, which was, I
think was a lot of
Dunham projects were suffering because
of the disconnect. Yeah, absolutely.
And then hopefully in the
future, sometime people will be
able to go file new
service stack project, or maybe
add service stack to an
existing project in a, in
a really, really friendly kind
of so easy it's as
easy as falling off a
log kind of a way.
Yeah. Yeah. I, I, again,
I, I, I think there's
a danger that you're, I
do think some sort of
templates is okay, but being
code first it's I do
prefer that model and I
will try not to cater
too much for the designer
driven kind of stuff, because
it is like if you
use ReSharper, it's just infinitely
quicker to write a class,
we factor into the new
file and then, and credit
service off that. And it's
just like take seconds to
build a service and deploy
it and run it. And
I just find that. So
I'm not, I'm not too
concerned about making it palatable
for new new developers. I'm
more concerned about making a
really great productive option for
existing developers. So not, not
trying to be too impeded
by can we design constraints
for instance. Very cool. Well,
thanks a lot for talking
to me. I appreciate it.
Cheers. Thanks Scott. Thanks for
that, man. All right, everyone
can check that out. Service
stack.net. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
we'll see you again next
week.